Initial setup for Github Pages (#4427)
firebase/firebase-android-sdk: contributor-docs/how_firebase_works.md

# How Firebase Works

## Background

### Eager Initialization

One of the biggest strengths for Firebase clients is the ease of integration. In a common case, a developer has very few things to do to integrate with Firebase. There is no need to initialize/configure Firebase at runtime. Firebase automatically initializes at application start and begins providing value to developers. A few notable examples:

* `Analytics` automatically tracks app events
* `Firebase Performance` automatically tracks app startup time, all network requests and screen performance
* `Crashlytics` automatically captures all application crashes, ANRs and non-fatals

The ability to initialize and start operating automatically is a core feature of Firebase that makes onboarding and adoption very simple. However with this advantage comes a great responsibility to keep the application snappy and not to slow down application startup for 3p developers as it can stand in the way of user adoption for the application.

### Automatic Inter-Product Discovery

> In addition to initializing automatically, when present together in an application, Firebase products can detect each other’s presence and automatically provide additional functionality to the developer, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When present together in an application, Firebase products can detect each other and automatically provide additional functionality to the developer, e.g.:
```

* `Firestore` automatically detects `Auth` and `AppCheck` to protect read/write access to the database

> * `Crashlytics` integrates with `Analytics`, when it’s available, to provide additional insights into the application behavior and enables safe app rollouts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Crashlytics` integrates with `Analytics`, when available, to provide additional insights into the application behavior and enables safe app rollouts
```

# How Firebase Works

## Background

### Eager Initialization

One of the biggest strengths for Firebase clients is the ease of integration. In a common case, a developer has very few things to do to integrate with Firebase. There is no need to initialize/configure Firebase at runtime. Firebase automatically initializes at application start and begins providing value to developers. A few notable examples:

* `Analytics` automatically tracks app events
* `Firebase Performance` automatically tracks app startup time, all network requests and screen performance
* `Crashlytics` automatically captures all application crashes, ANRs and non-fatals

> The ability to initialize and start operating automatically is a core feature of Firebase that makes onboarding and adoption very simple. However with this advantage comes a great responsibility to keep the application snappy and not to slow down application startup for 3p developers as it can stand in the way of user adoption for the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature makes onboarding and adoption very simple. However, comes with the great responsibility of keeping the application snappy. We shouldn't slow down application startup for 3p developers as it can stand in the way of user adoption of their application.
```

### Automatic Inter-Product Discovery

In addition to initializing automatically, when present together in an application, Firebase products can detect each other’s presence and automatically provide additional functionality to the developer, e.g.:

* `Firestore` automatically detects `Auth` and `AppCheck` to protect read/write access to the database
* `Crashlytics` integrates with `Analytics`, when it’s available, to provide additional insights into the application behavior and enables safe app rollouts

## FirebaseApp at the Core of Firebase

> Regardless of what Firebase SDKs are present in the app, the main initialization point of Firebase is `FirebaseApp` it acts as a container for all SDKs, manages their configuration, initialization and lifecycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of what Firebase SDKs are present in the app, the main initialization point of Firebase is `FirebaseApp`. It acts as a container for all SDKs, manages their configuration, initialization and lifecycle.
```

### Initialization

> `FirebaseApp` gets initialized with the help of `FirebaseApp#initializeApp()`, this happens [automatically at app startup](https://firebase.blog/posts/2016/12/how-does-firebase-initialize-on-android) or manually by the developer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`FirebaseApp` gets initialized with the help of `FirebaseApp#initializeApp()`. This happens [automatically at app startup](https://firebase.blog/posts/2016/12/how-does-firebase-initialize-on-android) or manually by the developer.
```

> When that happens `FirebaseApp` discovers all Firebase SDKs present in the app, determines the dependency graph between products(for inter-product functionality) and initializes `eager` products that need to start immediately, e.g. `Crashlytics` and `FirebasePerformance`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During initialization, `FirebaseApp` discovers all Firebase SDKs present in the app, determines the dependency graph between products(for inter-product functionality) and initializes `eager` products that need to start immediately, e.g. `Crashlytics` and `FirebasePerformance`.
```

### Firebase Configuration

> It contains Firebase configuration for all products to use, namely `FirebaseOptions`, which tells Firebase which `Firebase` project to talk to, which real-time database to use, etc.

Reviewer: Not sure what `it` refers to in this context.

### Additional Services/Components

In addition to `FirebaseOptions`, `FirebaseApp` registers additional components that product SDKs can request via dependency injection. To name a few:

* `android.content.Context`(Application context)
* [Common Executors](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-android-sdk/blob/master/docs/executors.md)
* `FirebaseOptions`

> * Various internal components

Reviewer: maybe mention executors?

Author: yep, it's mentioned as the second bullet :)

> ## Discovery and Dependency Injection

Reviewer: do you think there could be a confusion about DI here? between components and dagger

Author: There will be a page that describes the difference and when to use what.
